# x86的C語言參數對應暫存器

對於一般參數

rdi, rsi, rdx, rcx, r8, r9.

對於浮點參數

xmm0, xmm1, xmm2, xmm3, xmm4, xmm5, xmm6, xmm7


## Calling Conventions for 64-bit C Code

The 64-bit calling conventions are a bit more detailed, and they are explained fully in the AMD64 ABI Reference. You can also get info on them at Wikipedia. The most important points are (again, for 64-bit Linux, not Windows):

1. From left to right, pass as many parameters as will fit in registers. The order in which registers are allocated, are:
    * For integers and pointers, rdi, rsi, rdx, rcx, r8, r9.
    * For floating-point (float, double), xmm0, xmm1, xmm2, xmm3, xmm4, xmm5, xmm6, xmm7
2. Additional parameters are pushed on the stack, right to left, and are removed by the caller after the call.
3. After the parameters are pushed, the call instruction is made, so when the called function gets control, the return address is at (%rsp), the first memory parameter is at 8(%rsp), etc.
4. THE STACK POINTER %RSP MUST BE ALIGNED TO A 16-BYTE BOUNDARY BEFORE MAKING A CALL. Fine, but the process of making a call pushes the return address (8 bytes) on the stack, so when a function gets control, %rsp is not aligned. You have to make that extra space yourself, by pushing something or subtracting 8 from %rsp.
5. The only registers that the called function is required to preserve (the calle-save registers) are: rbp, rbx, r12, r13, r14, r15. All others are free to be changed by the called function.
6. The callee is also supposed to save the control bits of the XMCSR and the x87 control word, but x87 instructions are rare in 64-bit code so you probably don't have to worry about this.
7. Integers are returned in rax or rdx:rax, and floating point values are returned in xmm0 or xmm1:xmm0.

